# vba_challenge

## Background

 This vba_challenge.bas file is designed to be used on file 'Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsx' to analyse generated stock market data. 

The script loops through all the stocks for one year and outputs the following information:

-   The ticker symbol

-   Yearly change from the opening price at the beginning of a given year to the closing price at the end of that year.

-   The percentage change from the opening price at the beginning of a given year to the closing price at the end of that year.

-   The total stock volume of the stock.

-   The ticker symbol for the ticker that had the greatest % increase and the % increase amount

-   The ticker symbol for the ticker that had the greatest % decrease and the % decrease amount

-   The ticker symbol for the ticker that had the greatest total volume and the total volume

### Before You Begin

1. Copy files into local repository **Files referenced below**

### Files

* [README.md] - Readme file

* [vba_challenge.bas] - VBA script for use on Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsx

* [vba_challenge_2018.png] - snapshot of the results run on sheet 2018

* [vba_challenge_2019.png] - snapshot of the results run on sheet 2019

* [vba_challenge_2020.png] - snapshot of the results run on sheet 2020


## Instructions

2. Open Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsx

3. Save the workbook as a "Macro-Enabled Workbook" **Click File, select save as, change file type to "Macro-Enabled Workbook", click save** 

4. Click on Developer tab **located at the top of the application window**

5. Open the Visual Basic window **Click on button called "Visual Basic" Located top left side of the application window**

6. Once the Visual Basic window is open click on "File", then "Import File" **Or press Ctrl+M**

7. Locate the file named "vba_challenge.bas"

8. Select the file and click "Open" 

9. Close Visual Basic application window

9. Still under the "Developer" tab click on "Macros" **Or press Alt+F8**

10. Locate macro named "summarise_data" and click "Run"

11. A pop up message will be displayed once the process is complete


## References

* Dataset generated by Trilogy Education Services, LLC.

- - -

© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.